[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> We went in.
And they said, these tumors
hit such a growth spurt,
and we need to make sure that
this isn't a high-grade glioma.
And I said, well, what if it is?
They said, your
daughter will not
live to see her second birthday.
>> Thank you for allowing people
to open their minds, Lord,
to see that this is your gift
to us, your gift from heaven--
that you have given us this
medicine to treat our babies.
>> When we found out about
Sophie's brain tumor,
I had no idea this would be
the gift from God to her.
ALL: Amen.
>> When your kid's got
cancer, the rulebook goes out
the window, really.
You need to get
them well, and you
need to do everything that
you can to make them well.
And I wouldn't feel right if
I didn't explore everything
that there was.
>> They found over 20
tumors in his chest.
At that time, Dr. Storch
told us, now is the time
to do alternative medicine.
>> People have been using
cannabis as a medicine
for 5,000 years.
THC has always been kind
of the star of the show
because it's the
most psychoactive.
But then research
started showing
that there were a lot of other
cannabinoids in the plant that
had as many, if not more,
therapeutic effects.
>> For me, one of the
most exciting areas is,
is cannabis an anticancer agent?
The number of different ways
that cannabis and cannabinoids
in the test tube seem
to suppress cancer
is quite impressive.
But in oncology, we often
say the plural of anecdote
is not evidence.
>> Cancer cells plus cannabis
together in a Petri dish--
we know what happens there.
There's a lot of
studies that show that.
We do not have human
studies, and certainly we
don't have studies
in pediatrics.
Blood pressure's perfect.
Look at that.
>> If we want to use
marijuana as a medicine,
we need to make it a medicine.
We haven't done that yet.
>> My friend dying from
pancreatic cancer can't wait
for studies.
>> Yeah.
>> My child can't wait--
>> That's the biggest problem.
[APPLAUSE]
>> The controversy about
it kind of makes me mad
because it's at the
cost of our children.
It's at the cost
of our loved ones.
And a lot of people
don't want to try
this because of the reputation.
>> One can argue that
there's a human right to have
the government provide
you with the medicine.
But at the very least,
there has to be a consensus
that the government should
never deprive you of access
to a medicine which
can be helpful.
>> Why, as a society, are
we denying people the use
of something that I
have seen firsthand,
over and over and over
again, be helpful?
[PENSIVE MUSIC]
>> You ready to kick
cancer in the butt?
[LAUGHING] So excited.
>> It started off
with a swollen tonsil,
which I just thought
was a throat infection,
so it didn't
concern me too much.
So then the lump didn't go
away with the antibiotics.
So we got admitted,
and that's when
they thought he had 10 days
before it blocked his airways.
And eight days later,
he got the diagnosis.
I was really surprised when the
doctor came in and handed me
this treatment plan.
And I just thought,
that's really odd
that it's already been designed.
And then I realized that it
was one-size-fits-all for that
particular diagnosis,
that type of cancer.
Then I was quite worried
when he said, oh, this
was devised in the '70s.
And I said, what?
It's not been changed
since the '70s?
And he said, well, yeah,
slightly, but fundamentally,
because kids' cancer is quite
rare, not much research gets
done, which I find quite
worrying because you'd
hope that with medical
advances, things
would have changed slightly.
[SOFT MOANING]
He's the single worst case
of chemo-induced nausea
that they've ever seen.
Literally, we've
tried everything
that they have on
their list of options.
We've tried everything.
And then there
was the marijuana.
And marijuana is the only
thing that's really--
I mean, it doesn't work all
the time, but when it works,
it really, really works.
Then I started reading
about cannabis oil
and the anti-tumor
properties of it.
And I thought, well, if we're
using it to treat the symptoms,
we might as well give
him the anti-tumor dose
at the same time.
It's all about supporting
the side effects
and helping the chemo to
do its job of getting rid
of the cancer.
They're the two main things
that I'm trying to do with this.
[SOFT MUSIC]
>> When we first came here,
I was kind of clueless.
I had no idea what
pediatric oncology meant,
so that was terrifying.
Even though I've done
this more than 100 times,
I still get a little
afraid of the needle.
>> Hello.
Come on in, AJ.
>> Hi, Rosemary.
>> Hi.
How are you?
>> Tired but good.
How are you doing?
>> Good.
Thank you.
>> That's good.
>> We're going to count 1 to 3.
Ready?
>> Yeah.
And then 3 is when you
put it in, like always?
>> 1, 2, 3.
>> AJ's 17 years old now.
When we first found out that
he had cancer, he was 13?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> He was 13 years old.
We found out that it was
osteosarcoma cancer--
bone cancer.
By the time they caught
it, he was already stage 4.
I believe it was
the second chemo,
his lungs collapsed because the
cancer had spread to his lungs,
also being stage 4.
That trip was, like, six, eight
weeks solid in the hospital
that she lived in the
hospital with him.
It came back again, and it
was basically in his spine.
I think they took
out 2, 3, and 4,
and then put a steel cage in.
>> And they removed his ribs.
>> And then they removed some of
his ribs where it was attached
to, I think, one or
two on each side?
>> Two on each side.
Since my hand has
kind of been messed up
after one of the
surgeries on my back--
they had to sever
some of the nerves,
and those nerves were
going to my hand.
So my Fire button used
to be my mouse one,
but I changed it to looking
into my dinosaur's inventory
instead.
>> A month and a half after
the surgery, he was sick.
He didn't feel good.
They found over 20
tumors in his chest.
It was very bleak at that
point, and AJ does not
know how bleak it was.
We've never told him that.
He's a 17-year-old kid.
He needs to concentrate
on getting better.
>> Bronto is down for the count.
Hey, survival of the fittest.
>> This is the raw oil form
that we get when we buy it.
>> When we started using
it, we had to get a permit.
And then we could start actually
getting it from the dealer,
I guess, is the right
term-- distributor.
I'm not sure what the correct
term is to not make it look bad
or sound bad.
>> Sheila and AJ get
out and go upstairs.
And I'm driving the
truck in Beverly Hills,
circling the parking lot,
trying to find a place to park.
I can't.
I can't even find
a place to park.
She gets in the truck.
AJ gets in the truck.
And she's got this
little, teeny bag.
And I'm like, OK,
so what was it?
And she's crying.
And she's like, I wish
you could have been there
because of all these questions.
And I'm like, OK, so let me--
I'm curious.
What is this stuff?
What is it?
And how much did we spend?
And so she pulls out these two
little syringes that are, like,
10 grams or 10 milliliters.
It's supposedly all the
same or something like that.
And there's two of them.
And she goes this was
$1,010 for those two.
And I'm like--
[HARD GULP] It's our son.
What do you do?
>> Hi, Tracy.
>> Hi, so nice to meet you.
>> So nice to meet you.
>> Thank you so much
for coming all this way.
>> Oh, honey, it's my pleasure.
>> This is Sophie.
>> Hi, Sophie.
>> We just got her
up from her nap.
Yeah, she's still waking up.
>> Oh.
>> She's so aware.
>> Oh, she is.
>> Yeah, she's--
>> She's always been that way.
>> --quite the
special little baby.
Neither one of us could imagine
putting our tiny, little baby
through chemo.
And the day that we
decided to not do chemo
was the day that I felt
like I could breathe again,
and I'm sure he
would say the same.
>> Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
>> It's just so
counterintuitive to do it.
>> We got the scans.
Said it was an optic
pathway glioma.
>> Here's the core of the
mass sitting right there
on the optic cross.
>> These are excellent pictures.
>> Here-- oh, and this
is only one of them.
And then here.
This one is of her spine.
Her spine is totally clear, so
it's not metastasized or spread
in any way.
And then this--
>> Is that the most natural,
normal place for it to go?
>> Yeah.
She has none of that.
>> OK.
Let me just mention this.
I don't have medical training.
I don't claim to have
medical training.
I just have something that
I feel is more important,
and that's experience.
We're going to
have to experiment.
There might be times when,
as we're figuring out
what her dose is, we might
go, oh, OK, that's too much.
It can't hurt her
if it is too much.
All it's going to take is
the hours of it getting out
of her system.
>> And that's what we love
so much about this is that
she's not going to be suffering.
She's not going to be in pain.
We don't have to
watch her deteriorate.
She's perfect health-wise.
She's had one cold
in nine months,
and that's because
Dad gave it to her.
>> Except for that damn cancer.
>> Except for that
huge mass in her brain,
that's the only thing.
Yeah.
So literally, 1,000
stars had to align for us
to finally change
our mind on cannabis.
That was the only thing
that we just completely
dismissed and refused to
research because we just
thought it was so ridiculous.
>> We looked at
everything else but that.
>> And it was all from Facebook.
One of those mommies
said, look, there's
a lot of legitimate
science going on around it.
So we started really looking
at this positive research
on cannabis, and I said,
honey, this could be it.
So how do we--
>> With the first time, I'll
just go ahead and do it, OK?
>> OK.
Sure.
>> Now, I'm giving her a tiny,
tiny amount this first time,
OK?
>> OK.
>> Because she's never
been exposed to this.
And then you draw back on this
so it doesn't keep pouring out.
>> OK.
>> OK?
>> Here, let Mama.
Oh, here we go.
>> Good job.
>> Yay.
High-five, high-five.
Good job, honey.
Will she feel any of the THC, or
is that CBD going to kind of--
>> We won't know until she--
>> Until she-- till she--
>> Everybody's different.
If she has her
breakfast at 10:30,
then you're not going
to be giving her
this until probably 11:30 or
so, and then we don't have time
to get three doses in.
>> OK.
>> So we'll start out at two
doses and see how she does.
>> Well, we can
wake her up earlier.
>> I know.
I know.
But let's do as little
to disrupt her day.
Two is going to be fine.
It's not going to be the--
I know how--
I've come to learn
over the years
that we're not that powerful.
We can do the best we can.
We can whatever.
But whatever's going to
happen is going to happen.
We're just not that powerful.
>> I just want to do
what's best for her.
>> And I know.
And I understand that.
And you're a wonderful,
wonderful mother,
and you're doing an amazing job.
>> Thank you.
>> So for now, let's just
start with two a day.
>> OK.
>> Well, we're awfully happy
to be able to help and be part
of your journey.
>> Oh, we're happy to have you.
We really, truly are.
I cannot tell you how
much this means to us.
Oh, yes.
Let's put her to sleep.
>> You want to go to sleep?
>> You want to go
night-night, boo boo?
>> You want to go night-night?
Let's Mommy get you
some milk ready.
>> Sophie.
We're going to get you better.
>> It's a little
bit past my nap.
>> You're going to
live a long life.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> This is ground up like a
medium ground coffee grind.
That's what we found
works out the best.
>> No matter what, no bubbles,
completely decarboxylated.
All the air--
I went in for a pretty
routine surgery.
And when I got out, I had
hospital-acquired spinal
meningitis.
They sent me home from the
hospital on fentanyl patches,
morphine, all kinds
of horrible drugs
and basically said, here,
this is the rest of your life.
I'd gone from being this
incredibly vibrant, can-do,
can do anything person to I'm
the one sitting there watching
while everybody else
is living their life,
and I'm doing nothing.
I identify as a Dallas girl,
as a Texan in a lot of ways--
a Jewish Texan, which
is even weirder.
I never liked cannabis.
I was one of those people
that smoked pot a few times.
And it was like, eh, I don't
like the way it makes me feel.
On the other hand, I
had to do something
because life was becoming less
worthwhile living day by day.
Oh, it's gorgeous.
Be careful with that water while
I'm over here with the weed.
You know how I feel about that.
>> It's done.
There's not even a
dose left in that.
>> OK.
Want to taste it?
Oh, it's gorgeous.
>> Purple Urkle.
>> What I found was no
consistency, no predictability,
certainly nothing that
remotely resembled medicine.
So as a process engineer, I'm
going to have to do it myself.
>> I wrote G, E. We need to--
We learned that we
had to activate it
first or decarboxylate it.
And then you can cook
that into an oil base.
And so we went in the
cookbook and tried
to find the recipe with
the most oil in it.
>> The first thing I made was
my Aunt Zelda's carrot cake.
I can gauge how strong I made
it by how much of regular oil
versus infused oil I put in it.
Then we would weigh the piece
and know exactly what the dose
was in each and every piece.
And that's called medicine.
What's happened just
from having the cannabis,
as far as improving my health,
it's just been miraculous.
Hey, Nance.
Mara here.
I just wanted to
let you know, I know
you've got the 0.054
capsules of the Cannatonic.
If there's any way you
can back off a little bit
on the morphine and oxycodone,
that would be really great.
I have to make up the medicine
for Linda that Marie--
the way I manage this is pretty
much with my hair on fire
all the time.
Unfortunately, it's
just stored in me.
>> The biggest problem with
cannabis is that everybody has
such a different tolerance for
it that the biggest problem is
dosing.
And that's why we're
dosing specialists.
>> Now, what do you recommend
for Linda for her cancer?
She's at stage 4.
It's in both lungs now.
It's all through her
abdomen, so we really
have to get aggressive
at this point.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> But she doesn't want to
have that feeling of that,
quote unquote, stoney-ness
that the high THC.
I was kind of thinking
about putting her
on the Williams Wonder and then
cutting it with the Cannatonic.
>> That's a good plan.
>> OK.
>> Marie.
>> As many people
as we can help--
I mean, we just can't say no.
I mean, how can you say
no to a needy person?
I mean, how can we
send them somewhere
where they're just going to get
bad product or bad information?
That whole protocol
is going to be
about a pound, which
is, like, $1,200 is
about what we pay for it.
And we just pass that on to you,
and then we cover the overhead.
Well, how did you find us?
Google.
I didn't even we were on Google.
Take care.
Help's on the way.
[CHATTER]
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
>> Seizure reduction from
30% to 70% seizure reduction.
I've been a physician
now for 24 years.
I made the change from pediatric
ER to cannabis practice
because I knew
someone who was using
medical cannabis who was sick.
And seeing her do
so well with this,
I thought, wow,
here I am a doctor,
and I don't even have an
opinion because I don't know.
So that's kind of where
then I started that quest
for knowledge to make myself
a person who understands this
and then can help other
people understand it.
Good morning,
everybody, and thank you
for getting up early to
come here and hear me speak.
I have seen things that
we can call miracles.
And I think it's
really important
to understand that to a
family that's suffering,
it feels like a miracle, but
it's really just science.
And there's no reason
to be afraid of it.
And there's no reason that this
is not an option for everyone.
In 1988, researchers discovered
living things-- humans--
have cannabinoid
receptors in their brains.
>> Most people are familiar
with dopamine, serotonin,
norepinephrine-- classical
neurotransmitters.
That neurotransmitters
are chemicals
that allow neurons to
talk to each other.
When neuron A talks
to neuron B, it
sends a chemical messenger
across the synapse,
and that binds to
receptors at neuron B.
And then that turns
into electricity.
>> What we've discovered is that
part of that system is governed
by cannabinoid compounds.
These are just molecules
that we have that bind
to these specific receptors.
And they seem to play
a role in smoothing out
the whole communication process.
>> It seems to be so important
that a group at NIH recently
published a review and said that
the endocannabinoid system is
involved in essentially
all human diseases.
Now, that's a very
strong statement.
Very strong.
>> Those receptors are not
there for the cannabis plant,
but it turns out that the
cannabis plant compounds called
cannabinoids work
at those receptors.
>> So when you take a
cannabinoid in from outside
by smoking or vaporizing or
eating or a pharmaceutical,
you are somehow tinkering
with that system and adjusting
the way in which those nerves
and muscles and communications
happen.
>> I often joke around
with my patients.
It's not magic fairy dust.
It's not voodoo.
There are chemical
compounds in the plant that
interact with the cells in
our brains and in our bodies
and have certain reactions.
It's the same as
every other drug.
It just came from a plant.
>> I, as an
herbalist, felt duped,
felt lied to because I tell
people about magnificent herbs
all the time.
Cannabis was just off limits.
I mean, I was in
that culture of it.
I thought it was
this poisonous weed.
I have nine children, and
I have seen a lot of people
with cancer.
These experiences are just
too overwhelming to ignore.
I looked at my books
and said, there
has to be cannabis in here.
I have never looked for it.
And it was everywhere.
They start out with,
this is so well-known
to every good housewife
in the country
that I shall not need to
write a description of it.
And then it goes
down to tell you,
including how to use the roots.
And this book is--
this book is 1805.
All of these tabs are
references to cannabis
and how to use cannabis.
We lost this.
This is a tool we really need.
And we're not too
stupid to do it.
We're not too stupid
to handle this plant.
>> My father said to me,
when I was at the University
of Minnesota School
of Pharmacy in 1928,
one of the assignments we
had was to make tincture
of cannabis.
And we had to be very careful
because the alcohol was
illegal.
And I thought, well, how quaint.
But we don't use plants anymore.
And it probably took me
a good 15 or 20 years
to really appreciate that
this stuff still was medicine.
>> It was part of
the Pharmacopeia.
Well into the 20th century,
it was a frequently
prescribed medication,
not to smoke it
but in its tinctures, et cetera.
And if you look at then why
and how it was criminalized,
really the key factor was the
role of racism and xenophobia--
anti-Mexican sentiment.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> People often point their
finger at Harry Anslinger,
who was the founder, the first
head of the Federal Bureau
of Narcotics.
But in fact, he
didn't start off being
an anti-marijuana ideologue.
It was really as
the '30s progressed
that he began to see the
political opportunity in this.
The Marijuana Tax Act of 1937
is basically a prohibition law.
>> The American Medical
Association told Congress
in 1937-- we sent a
representative and said that
you should not ban the substance
because substantial medical
uses and developments
will be neglected.
And also, there's things
that we are already
using this for that we
don't have substitutes for.
>> Is this a medicine?
Cannabis has been a
medicine for 3,000 years.
It only hasn't been a medicine
in this country for 70 years.
I think it's a medicine.
>> It's 70 years of propaganda
that you're trying to fight
against, and that's not
something that's going
to change overnight.
I mean, honestly, a lot of
people look at me and say,
really, you would have
given your 7-year-old child
marijuana?
And with what I know
now, absolutely.
But if you'd have asked
me that same question
four or five years
ago, I probably
would have been in
that skeptical camp.
Now, unfortunately, the parents
know a lot more about this
than the doctors
do because when you
become so desperate that
you're willing to try anything,
you learn.
And if I cry, I apologize.
But a day before
my son passed away,
I prayed to God to take him
because the suffering was just
too bad.
And if I can help one parent--
just one-- not make that
prayer of desperation,
that's what my goal is in life.
>> Here's her bottle.
Give Mama a kiss.
>> Say naptime.
I'll see you in an hour.
>> This is her cannabis oil
regimen that we have right now.
CT stands for the Cannatonic.
We give her the size of about a
half a grain of rice two times
a day.
So this is what
Sophie looks like when
she starts to feel the
effects of her medicine.
She's not moving around as much,
and she's a little sleepy face.
But this is it.
It is day 8 since
we first started
giving her the cannabis oil.
She, as of today, is starting
to get two different oils.
So considering that a
little bit of sleepiness
is all we're seeing
as a side effect,
I'd say this has definitely
been a much better alternative
to chemo thus far.
All right, let's see if
we can get her to take it.
Come on, honey.
Good girl.
There you go.
We just put a little
drop on her pacifier--
tiny, tiny, little drop.
So we're going to give that
to her while she's sleeping.
So we had to up
Sophie's medicine.
She's in a very good mood.
Aren't you, honey?
Are you happy right now?
She is playful and
laughing and smiling.
Yeah, I'm just glad you guys
are supporting us holding off
on the chemo.
>> We recognize with this
diagnosis there is some room
here in terms of exploring
complementary therapies.
But in general, we have a
historical standard of care
that we have.
As long as we keep that in
mind, moving forward, for sure,
we definitely can
intervene at any time.
And she already has the
port device in place.
>> They all know what
our treatment plan is.
They all know we're
using the oils.
They've had nothing
negative to say.
They haven't thought
in any way, shape,
or form we're being
bad parents or we're
doing anything that is harmful
to our child in any way, which
is fantastic because we wouldn't
do it if our doctors didn't
support us.
He did bring up the
chemo word, which I even
hate talking about it.
We still believe in our hearts
that this is going to work.
I mean, she's
thriving right now.
Her eye is getting better.
And I don't know if
it means anything.
And Dr. Cheng couldn't tell
us if it means anything
because you don't know until
you actually do the MRI scan.
If I looked at it from
a logical standpoint,
as the tumor gets smaller
and releases pressure,
the eye shakes less.
That, to me, is
logical thinking.
So I'm going to go with logic
and say that the tumor is
already getting smaller.
That's what I'm
going to go with.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
>> [SPANISH]
>> Oh, AJ has to see the doctor.
He has to see the doctor so
he can get some more medicine?
>> If you good, we going to go--
>> Get some chocolate.
>> --get some chocolate,
and then we'll get some--
>> Let me check your eyeballs.
Look at my nose.
OK.
Now can you follow the
light with your eyes?
Don't move your head.
Look up.
>> We went to the pediatricians.
>> OK.
>> They evaluated him, and
that's when she sent us
to the ER and said that we
probably would not return home
because she realized
it was serious.
>> Right.
So they diagnosed it
based on what they saw
on the CAT scan and the MRI.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> And then what
did they tell you?
>> What they normally
do is radiation.
It had to be done right
away because he was already
to the point where he couldn't
swallow by the time we--
like, the first day of
being in the hospital.
>> And what did they tell
you his prognosis is?
>> Well, they suspect six
to nine months of life.
After that, then it
would be the end.
>> So they shrunk it to give
him more quality of life.
>> Right.
Right.
Yes, ma'am.
>> All right.
>> And they had
nothing more to offer.
>> That's so scary.
Yeah.
In the state of California,
my job as a medical cannabis
consultant is to
determine whether or not
AJ qualifies based on the
law for medical cannabis.
And he does.
So I'm going to
get you the letter.
And everybody
talks about a card.
It's not a card.
It's a letter.
And in that letter, I make the
statement that he qualifies
and that I'm approving
him to use it.
You've probably heard
of stories of some
of the other patients
that have had
brain tumors that are responding
to high-dose cannabis oil.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> There are no guarantees
because I have to tell you,
there's no clinical trials.
There's no-- oh, I have 10
kids with the same tumor,
and we studied them, and half
of them got placebo, and half--
it doesn't exist.
So he's still within two
months of being diagnosed.
>> Right.
>> It's still pretty early, even
though it's a fairly aggressive
tumor.
You're not coming here saying,
they gave us two weeks.
You have some time here,
which is really good.
>> OK.
>> OK?
There are some side effects.
They're not like side effects
of chemo, which are devastating.
It's, to me, nothing to be
afraid of at this point because
for him--
I mean, not to be dramatic about
it, but it's life and death.
I mean, you're not getting
any other options here.
And as a mom myself, I
would do it in a heartbeat,
knowing what I know and
seeing what I've seen.
OK?
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> What kind of medicine
are we giving her?
>> Turmeric.
>> Turmeric?
Mm.
>> Yeah, she didn't
care if it's spicy.
She's used to it.
>> Oh, what a brave girl.
She's brave.
And then what else
do you give her?
>> I give her black medicine.
>> What do you give
the black medicine on?
>> Ice cream.
>> On ice cream?
What kind of ice cream?
>> The good kind.
Watch Julie take
her black medicine.
>> You're going to give
your baby black meds?
What does that do?
>> Make the cancer go away.
>> I was deathly afraid
when I realized we were
on the oncology ward.
I remember them saying,
you have to wash your hands
before and after you leave
the rooms because we're
in the oncology.
Oncology.
And I was like-- it was,
like, 4:00 in the morning.
I'm like, what
does oncology mean?
I'm sorry if I'm--
I don't know what this means.
And she's like,
this is the cancer.
And then that's when it hit
me that my daughter literally
had cancer.
They sat me down.
They're like, this is
a 97% curable rate.
She's going to finish
this treatment.
She will go on to live
a long, healthy life.
The side effects
are very minimal.
You have nothing
to worry about it.
Just like us.
We'll get you through this.
She has the best cancer
that you can have.
So we really did trust them.
>> She went through her
six months of chemotherapy.
And then we went about four
months out of treatment
without any evidence
of the disease.
I remember I was at work,
and I got a call from Jaclyn
saying that she was
breathing weird.
Something wasn't right.
So we took her in
the emergency room,
and she was diagnosed with
stage 4 complete metastasis.
Her right lung was covered
top to bottom with cancer.
And this time she would
have four medications.
You have to have two new ones
because, as everyone knows,
cancer cells, they become
resilient to chemotherapy,
so you have to up it.
It has to be stronger.
>> This one was much more
aggressive and harsh.
And right away, I
mean, we could see her.
I mean, just all the life
that was in her was gone.
She was three and
1/2 and 19 pounds.
>> We didn't know if
she would survive it.
It wasn't looking
very good for her.
And the hospital
could not guarantee
her long-term survival.
And so we were able to
opt out of treatment,
which is very rare.
It was an unpopular decision.
I personally did not believe
she was going to survive
the next round of chemotherapy.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
I think my worst fear was
obviously losing my daughter
at home at my own hands.
>> And my uncle told us
about the cannabis oil.
He gave me some to try.
Yeah.
I was-- I thought it was--
I got liquid gold.
I was like, let's go.
So three months after we
opted out, we did a scan.
And the 4.2 was down
to 1.62 millimeters.
And the one that was
slightly over 1 millimeter
was completely gone.
And of course, we believe that
it was definitely the cannabis.
Wow.
Can you give him besos?
>> I can honestly tell you
here right now that my daughter
would not be alive today
if we had not done it.
I believe 100% that she is
here because of that, because
of cannabinoids, and
because of our faith in God.
>> I don't doubt that it's
definitely cannabis oil,
but we just don't
know what's in it.
I mean, one of the problems with
it not being regulated and it
not being controlled is that
you don't know what you're--
I mean, you just have to trust
that the people that you're
getting it from are
doing it the right way.
And I was just a bit concerned
because when I opened this,
it smelled kind of solventy.
But they said to leave
it out to breathe.
But it would be
interesting to know what
the components of this were.
It shouldn't be like
that, should it?
There should be a place
where you can go to,
and you can get advice.
You can get it tailored to the
treatment, tailored to this one
at night, this one
in the morning.
I mean, it should be
available, and it just isn't.
And that's why we're all
floundering in the dark,
really.
[MUMBLING]
>> Are you Tracy?
>> Yes, nice to meet you.
>> Oh, so good to meet you.
I'm so sorry it took
me so long to get here.
>> That's OK.
This is Dr. Raber.
>> Hi.
>> Hi, Angela.
You can call me Jeff.
Oh, good.
>> My job is public health
and safety to make sure
there's nothing here like
solvents or pesticides
or microbiological contaminants
that could cause harm in those
fashions.
>> I've been kind of doing
it in the dark, really,
so I'll be really
grateful to hear your--
>> So I mean, in
the information age,
you can get a lot of bad
information and some good info.
>> Well, that's the problem.
Yeah.
That, to me, it's a little bit
solventy, but it's not too bad.
Do you think that's
horribly solventy?
>> That smells really--
I mean, you can
let Jeff smell it.
But it smells very
solventy to me.
>> Yeah, there's something--
something different.
>> Well, there's definitely
a little alcohol,
but it smells like rubbing
alcohol, not like ethanol.
>> That one's worse.
Try that one.
That one stinks.
That one, I thought,
wasn't too bad.
>> Oh, that's rubbing alcohol.
That's isopropanol.
You should not be eating that.
No.
That's no good.
And they do use it.
>> Oh, that is rubbing alcohol.
>> It's rubbing alcohol.
That's not ethanol.
>> That's not food
grade alcohol.
>> That smells
like the alcohol--
>> And you're giving him--
>> No, not that one.
No.
>> I don't know if you've given
him tremendously large amounts
that you need to be concerned
about complete damage.
But it will be more difficult
on the liver to metabolize that,
and it could cause
damage to certain cells.
When they're on chemo and
they're on other medications,
the liver is already on--
it's pretty busy.
So we don't want to
make it work harder.
>> Chico's not
going to-- he's OK.
>> OK.
>> And here's the
other travesty. $3,000.
>> $3,300.
>> For those three
tiny little pots.
>> That's disturbing.
>> I know.
>> A lot.
The hardest part of what
we do-- because I always
have to be the
disseminator of bad news.
>> --going to let us start
testing it for medicinal
purposes, that will help
as well because right now--
and correct me if I'm wrong--
they're only allowing
tests to happen
that show how it can hurt
you, not how it can help you.
>> I believe it was-- yeah, 6%
of the studies are currently
funded for good purposes,
and 94% are looking at bad
purposes.
>> The US National Institute
on Drug Abuse, NIDA,
funds the vast majority
of drug abuse research,
not just in the United
States but in the world.
The way they encourage
scientists and researchers
was all about trying
to identify harms.
>> Congress, in 1970, placed
marijuana in the Schedule I
category--
high potential for abuse, no
medical use and treatment.
>> Marijuana is in the same
category with heroin and LSD.
Cocaine is in a lower
category, Schedule II,
because it has legitimate
medical uses in some limited
areas.
>> Unfortunately, we still have
this block of the Schedule I
status.
So the federal government
is telling us there's
not enough research on
cannabis to de-schedule it
from Schedule I. And
then they're saying,
but we can't do research
because it's Schedule I.
So it's put us in this
really horrible position.
>> The DEA is blocking
recognition that this is
science on marijuana's
medical efficacy,
and you just can't be in
the dark about that and say
there's no currently accepted
medical use and treatment
in the United States and
no standard for safety.
That's a lie.
>> The first evidence that
cannabis may have anti-cancer
activity actually came from
our National Cancer Institute
in 1974.
But mysteriously, those lines
of investigation disappeared.
>> I started downloading
studies, like, five years ago.
There were, like, 450 just
on reference breast cancer.
And now there's
maybe 30 on there.
Where'd all those go?
Where'd they go?
Why'd they go off PubMed.gov?
Why is the government
taking those studies off?
>> Luckily, there's research
going on in other countries
that hopefully it will be
able to use to make a case
to de-schedule marijuana
in the United States.
>> There are no
prescriptions in America.
There's recommendations.
Doctors aren't allowed
to prescribe cannabis.
They're allowed to recommend it.
In Israel, every
one of the patients
is prescribed cannabis.
It's a federal license.
And because it's
a federal license,
the growers grow federally.
The patients use federally.
So research that's overseen
by the federal government
is then being conducted.
So you don't have that block.
So the research started
here in the '60s.
We were gifted with
Professor Mechoulam.
He isolated the cannabinoid THC.
>> How come morphine had been
isolated from opium 150 years
previously, and cocaine had been
isolated from coca leaves 100
years previously, and the active
compound in cannabis had never
been isolated in pure form?
Its structure was unknown.
So it was impossible to
do any biological work.
In science, Israel is
a very liberal country.
While in the US it was very
difficult to do cannabis work,
here we had absolutely
no problems.
>> Dedi is the
epitome of science--
the go by the book, study
for your eight PhDs,
and work on curing
cancer type of guy,
working with cannabis,
which is unheard of today.
>> When you put cannabis
extract or THC and CBD,
which are the main
cannabinoids in the extract,
it can really kill the cancer
in a way we call apoptosis.
Actually, the cells
commit suicide.
Every cell in our
body has a checkpoint
that they are checking
if there is a problem.
And if there is a problem,
they will kill themselves.
They will commit suicide.
So what we see, that
cannabis is giving the cancer
cells back this
ability that they lost.
In the first row, we can
see colon cancer cell
lines growing in the plate.
Every dot like
this is the cells.
When we're adding
cannabis strain number 3--
CB3-- we see all the
cells are dying here.
100% of the cells died here.
What is even more interesting
in this image, when
we are growing colon cells,
which are not cancer cells,
and we're adding strain number
3, nothing has happened.
When we add the same strain
to the colon cancer cells,
they died.
When we're adding it
to the normal cells,
they are not dying.
It's not affecting them.
The same thing with
strain number 4.
In this image, it's
very important.
We see we're adding
strain number
3 and 4 that kill the colon
cancer and the breast cancer.
Here, it's not affecting
the prostate cancer.
So it's very important to
understand which materials
we have in these strains.
What are the pattern
of cannabinoids
and terpene there and
why it's affecting one
cancer and not the other?
>> We've been in the field of
cannabis for about 20 years.
>> We started to do
experiments with cancer cells,
and we were expecting
other results.
We were doing metabolic studies.
And what we saw was something
completely unexpected.
We were killing cancer cells.
So these are one of
the first experiments
we performed with animals.
We treated immunedeficient mice.
So we injected
glioblastoma human cells
underneath the skin, and
we generated these tumors.
And half of the animals were
treated with cannabinoids--
in this case, with THC.
And the other half received
no cannabinoid treatment.
The tumors of these
animals that were not
treated with cannabinoids
are way bigger
than these other tumors.
More recently, we have been
working on breast cancer.
And here we represent
two more volumes--
how big the tumors
are as time passes.
And this is how tumors that are
not treated with cannabinoids
behave.
They grew.
And this is the
THC-treated population.
As you can see, they have
less metastases in the lungs,
and they have less tumors per
animal than the control group.
So it works pretty well.
>> We are also realistic, and
we know that there are many
therapies that have
worked finally in mice.
And then they fail
when they go to humans.
Of course, we need
robust clinical trials
to get to know finally, at
last, whether cannabinoids
can be or not anti-tumor
agents in precise patient
subpopulations.
>> Good morning, Sophie.
Hi, my love.
Want to turn that
light on for me?
Oh, big stretch.
>> Good morning, honey.
>> So today is the big day.
Today is the first
scans that we're
going to be getting to see if
what we're doing is working.
>> You're going to get
a nice nap, Sophie.
>> Yeah, baby doll, you're going
to get to go to sleep really
soon.
>> You're going to get a
nice little nap, baby girl.
Hi.
>> Mixed in with this?
>> No, no, no.
Like your little pushers,
and then followed by--
which is this.
This is 30 units.
>> So we're headed
home from scan day.
Sophie is very unhappy.
The anesthesia is making
her really, super cranky.
And she's tired.
And the radiologist said
that she would read them
by the end of the
day today, so we're
hoping to get information
pretty quickly.
Hello?
Hi.
Hold on.
I'm trying to get
it on speakerphone.
Can you hear me?
>> Oh, OK.
Hi, guys.
>> Hi.
>> So I'm not sure if you got
a chance to glance at the MRI.
Unfortunately, it does
look a little worse
than it did back in June.
>> So that means we got
to start chemo ASAP.
>> I think our trajectory
is unfortunately chemo.
>> [VOICE BREAKING] So
when do we have to start?
>> So I think we
can start this week,
and then we can spend some
time in the office and go over
everything again.
[CRYING]
>> It's not smaller.
It's not stable.
And that means chemo,
which is just--
it's really, really,
really hard to imagine
and what that's
going to be like.
>> OK, here's the good news.
We're very, very far away
from where we want to be.
It's not like we had her
on this really high dose,
and it didn't work.
And we're going to
have to play around
with it until we
find how Sophie's
most comfortable with it.
>> We're 100% going to keep
using the cannabis moving
forward.
Now we're going to increase her,
not only just because I believe
it will work
alongside the chemo,
but it will also counteract
the side effects of the chemo.
I don't think that
cannabis has failed us.
I think that we don't
have her dose right.
We're in uncharted waters.
We're lab rats.
>> You must be Mara.
>> I am Mara.
Hello, Angela.
Oh, my pleasure.
Nice to meet you in person.
Doctors will call us.
We have one doctor that
called me a cannabis doula.
>> Ow.
>> And I think Jeff called
me the cannabis midwife.
>> [MUMBLING]
Oh, wow.
>> Take a smell.
>> Oh, I don't even--
I can just see it, first of all.
>> They did say you
have to let it breathe.
>> Who said?
>> The person that
I bought it from.
>> This is alcohol.
This is just pure
alcohol in here
with a little bit of
cannabis diluted in it.
OK.
Here's what I brought.
For example, this
is the high THC.
This is the one
that Stewart made.
Everything's labeled.
Can you put your
feet down, or no?
No?
Where's the pain the most?
>> In my stomach and my head.
>> In your head?
This oil that we
made is different.
It's a little different.
It's stronger, and it doesn't
have all that alcohol in it.
That alcohol could be
burning your stomach, too.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> So any questions you have?
Any concerns?
Any anything?
But I want to know all the
adjectives and all the adverbs
how you're feeling--
anything.
Anything that doesn't
seem right or whatever.
And if this strain doesn't work
it, we'll try another strain.
There's 4,500 strains, and
we'll find one that helps.
>> [GROANS]
>> We have probably the most
paperwork of anyone I know,
of any collective.
We tell people
right off the bat,
we're collecting their data.
We are expecting to
use the data to help
find solutions for
diseases and to help
to use it for other people.
It's all just experimentation
at this point.
>> OK.
>> All right.
Is that better?
>> You've had a lot on your
plate over the last couple
of weeks.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> And I'm here to answer any
questions you have and walk you
through what we're going to do.
One of the syringes I
sent you is Hindu Kush.
And the other one is
something called Yummi.
>> OK, I see now.
>> And the-- bind CBD to THC.
>> So you said that the
Yummi is higher in CBD.
Am I hearing you right?
OK.
>> Yes.
The Hindu Kush is a high THC.
And I'm not sure which
one is going to do better.
After an hour, maybe two
hours, just see how he does.
I mean, you're his mom and dad.
You guys are who know your son.
You don't ever have to worry
about him taking too much.
And in a matter of
hours, it'll be over.
>> OK.
>> There's nothing that you can
do to screw it up other than
to not give him his medicine.
>> OK.
>> OK, that's what
I wanted to hear.
That makes me feel better.
>> OK.
>> You cannot hurt him.
>> Yes.
>> He would have to probably
take a pound of oil at once.
The body cannot
overdose on cannabis.
>> A little bit.
That's all you got to take.
Just put it on his tongue?
>> Under his tongue.
>> Under the tongue.
Just lick it off.
Lick it off.
>> How'd that taste?
>> A little good.
>> OK, a little good.
All right.
>> All right.
Good job, AJ.
>> Let's have some fun.
>> Dad ready to
have some fun, too.
>> OK.
>> We just so happened to
have a couple of salsa bottles
in, so I threw the salsa away.
And--
>> --eat it.
>> Well, we ate some of it,
but I commandeered the jars.
And the Tostitos,
I put the THC oil
in because I thought T
and T. And then there
wasn't any cannabis
that began with an M.
Oh, I should've said
marijuana, shouldn't I?
But the CBD is in the other one.
But I actually did label
them wrong the other night.
Anyway, we've been playing with
them a little bit because we're
trying to get him to eat.
And THC promotes appetite,
and CBD stops your appetite.
So we've been messing
with the proportions.
But we've kind of stuck
to two to three now--
three THC, two CBD.
You woke up giggling
yesterday morning, didn't you?
And Mara was very pleased.
[CHUCKLES]
>> And so how do you feel now?
>> Good.
>> You look good.
Yeah?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Right on.
Well, that's good.
>> Chico, I'm just going
to see how it feels, OK?
If it's ready.
We left a little
extra time on it.
I'll be right back.
I'm going to get you a mask, OK?
Where's your ear, Chico?
>> Here.
>> Missing.
>> There you go.
>> I'll say, he likes
digging his nails in.
>> You can squeeze me or dig
into me as hard as you want to.
>> OK, I just want to find it.
I know.
>> [MOANING, WHIMPERING]
>> There you go.
Perfect.
Perfect, perfect, perfect.
There you go.
>> It's done.
It's already done.
>> It's over.
>> So you just need to--
>> It's all done.
I'm done.
>> [CRYING]
>> That's it.
It's all over.
You did fantastic.
OK.
It's all done.
Breathe, Chico.
Oh.
>> Blow.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
>> Chico had a really horrible,
harsh chemotherapy regime.
It was very punishing.
And he had 28 daily
radiation sessions
over a five or six-week period.
He was probably in
hospital more days
than he wasn't in hospital.
Luckily, we were
in a legal state.
It would have caused
way, way more stress
to try and do this
illegally and behind
the backs of the doctors.
At least everything
was above board.
Everything was up front.
I just find it
absolutely staggering
to accept that in this day
and age, with the billions
of dollars that's spent
on cancer research,
the medicine that
we were relying on
is made in somebody's kitchen.
>> All good?
>> I just want to get you
home and get you back normal.
[SOOTHING MUSIC]
>> Ball.
Book.
So I've already
started the dose.
She gets a much larger dose now.
She's almost at a gram a day--
a 1 to 1 ratio of CBD to THC.
So we got her up to the
cancer-killing dose.
She's completely acclimated
to it, has no side
effects, no sleepiness.
You would never know
she's taking anything.
Baby.
Oh, you can do it, honey.
>> Yeah, you got it.
>> Come see Mama.
>> You got it.
>> Yeah.
Whoo.
Oh-oh-oh.
Good job, honey.
You OK, pumpkin pie?
We went in.
And they said, this tumor
has hit such a growth spurt
that we need to do
a biopsy, and we
need to make sure that this
isn't a high-grade glioma.
So then we had to
schedule brain surgery.
And luckily, all the tissue
samples came back low-grade.
She hasn't had the
best day today.
I'm going to have to
do some IV fluids.
She's not drinking a whole lot,
which is all part of the chemo.
We're on day 5.
It's kind of weird
that it's so delayed,
but she's not been
doing too bad overall.
Here, baby.
Open.
Mm, big bite.
Yay.
Good girl.
There she goes.
You ready for some
amazing results?
This will be the second scan
since we started chemo and have
been at high doses of cannabis.
So now we just wait.
We wait for the good news.
Don't we, baby?
>> [WHINING]
>> She's hoarse from them
putting a tube down her throat.
We just got the call.
There's some cell death.
The tumor is actually
dying in certain areas.
There's no new growth.
And they said that
they would like
to be able to take
credit for it all,
but they just don't
know if they can.
I'm just thrilled.
This is the most amazing news
we could have ever gotten.
She's going to be OK.
Oh, my god.
>> I mean, we still have
a battle ahead of us.
We're still going
to have to do chemo.
But I can actually
see the future.
I can see walking little
Sophie down the aisle
and taking her to
her first dance
recital and all those
things that you want to do.
(QUIETLY) It's a good feeling.
[SOFT MUSIC]
>> It's 5 milligrams of oxy, OK?
>> He was addicted to opiates.
He'd had to have dilaudid
when he was in the hospital
to manage the pain, and that had
created an opiate dependency.
So they put him onto methadone
to transition him off it.
And I fought and
fought and fought
them putting him on
methadone for months
and months and months.
Finally, I caved in.
And I knew that if I'd just
managed to get him home,
I could have got him off
the opiates with oxycodone
and cannabis oil because I'd
done it so many times before.
But I caved in and agreed
to put him on methadone.
And it was a nightmare.
>> Your mom's here.
We're taking a pause right now.
We're taking a break.
You're OK.
>> Chico, you're OK.
>> [CRYING]
>> Would you let a first or
second grader or any child use
medical marijuana?
>> We do know in people who
start before the age of 15
and keep doing it throughout
their life, even sporadically,
tend to have an impact
later on in life.
You lose about eight
IQ points on average.
Again, these are hard
studies to come by.
That was a study out
of the Netherlands.
>> How does methadone
affect the developing brain?
How does dilaudid affect
the developing brain?
How do these heavy duty opiates
that they prescribe willy-nilly
to children-- nobody
looks at the effects
of those types of medicines
on the developing brain.
And I can tell you for sure
that a kid who's on methadone
is way, way lower in terms
of their mental capacity
and functioning.
The best thing we ever did was
get Chico weaned off methadone
as fast as we could.
And we did that with
the help of the oil.
We titrated the methadone
down as the oil came up.
And we saw his mental
capacity return
as the methadone went away,
even though the cannabis
oil was coming up.
That's why I'm not really taking
very seriously the IQ point
argument.
But even if it's true, frankly,
it's a small price to pay.
>> When we started the oil,
it was right after surgery.
He was in so much pain.
Every morning she leaves
at 5:30 in the morning.
When he would wake up, he
would be crying in bed,
screaming for me.
He was in so much pain.
And I would give him two
OxyContin at 6 o'clock
in the morning.
Two to three hours later,
I would give him two Norco.
Two to three hours
later, I would give him
either Advil, Motrin,
Excedrin-- anything
I could give him to get to
that next span of giving him
two more OxyContin and
then two more Norco.
And we were doing this around
the clock the entire time.
>> And he wasn't eating, and
he was vomiting all the time.
>> Yes.
>> But you know what's amazing,
is when she brought us home.
And she says, it's
a sesame seed size--
half.
And you look at that.
You look at what size that is.
>> It's nothing.
>> And I looked at him.
I said, this isn't
going to work.
I felt like we wasted our money.
Hi, Monkey.
What are you doing?
>> Getting some orange juice.
>> Within three days, he
was off all the pain pills.
He was eating.
>> It was like--
it was, like, Monday or
Tuesday when we started it.
By Friday, he was taking
one OxyContin all day.
And it was just like,
something's happening.
I don't know what,
but something's--
it's good.
>> There are so many people
out there that could use this
medicine, where it can
improve their lives,
where they are so far
off from having access.
And in the meantime,
they're just
being fed a steady stream
of pharmaceutical drugs.
And year after year,
we see the number
of people dying from
accidental overdose
due to pharmaceutical drugs
get higher and higher.
>> It's remarkable when you look
at this explosion of research
studies coming out about the way
in which marijuana is reducing
the problems with opioids
and other pharmaceuticals.
>> 80% of the prescription
drugs are made from opiates.
And I think as the world
learns and understands
that it's addicted to
heroin, to opiates,
I think that the
world, once over,
will learn how to free itself.
But right now the
science is being blocked,
and it's being blocked by big
pharma not wanting the science
to succeed.
>> In the big picture, the
pharmaceutical industry,
which controls the medical
community, it's a big,
money-driven machine.
You have these people.
They're using morphine.
They're using fentanyl--
all these drugs that
are respiratory
depressants that,
in themselves, can accidentally
inherently kill you.
But because it's
prescribed by the hospital,
because it originates from
our pharmaceutical industry,
it's accepted by society.
And this has this reputation
for recreational use.
And by technicality, it's
a Schedule I narcotic.
It's a little, like
I said, infuriating
because for us, we're using
it to save our child's life.
>> OK.
Cecilia, we got to take
the black medicine, OK?
>> OK.
And then all by myself--
>> Yeah, that's a good idea.
>> You don't have to
give me really anymore
because I'm a big girl.
You don't have to
give me it anymore.
>> So this is Aunt Zelda's.
We use a 1 to 1
ratio of THC to CBD,
which is what most
cancer patients use.
When she was very
sick, at her highest,
we were at about
$3,000 a month in oils.
Now that we're down
to a maintenance dose,
it's roughly about
$1,500 a month.
>> So I mean, literally,
we sold bikes.
We sold--
>> Everything.
>> --just whatever we could.
>> I was very maxed
out at this point,
working as much
overtime as I could.
So I just kind of asked, what
do you guys do on the job
when they get sick?
Because we're doing something
completely alternative.
We're not using our
insurance anymore.
So that next day,
they got in touch
with a charitable organization
called the Fire Family
Foundation.
Up front, they were willing to
pay for a month of supplements.
And I was a little apprehensive.
I'm like, let me
just be clear on what
we're talking about here.
We're talking about
medical marijuana.
This is cannabis.
And they were like, that's fine.
We know.
We're happy to do that for you.
>> We came up with a plan to
figure out how we could get
some extra funds for Jim.
When he told me about the
cannabis treatment, I was like,
you know what, you're
going to do what it takes.
And I'm sure if it
was my daughter,
I'd probably do the same thing.
>> We're humble,
prideful people.
I mean, I'm too humble.
I'm maxed out.
There's nothing else
I can possibly do.
And if you don't
reach out, your child
is not going to
get her medication.
She's going to die.
>> It's heartbreaking to see
that there's something that
could help your child,
and you can't get it.
For these parents,
I can't imagine.
I mean, we've been
in that situation,
and doors just keep
getting opened.
And it's amazing.
And we're blessed beyond means
because we have our baby.
And I mean-- so
nothing else matters.
But if you're paying
into insurance,
insurance should
pay for what you
want it to go to, to help
whatever is showing success.
It's saving our baby's lives.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> Kiss?
Thank you.
So sweet.
You're so sweet.
>> Now the nerves
really start kicking in.
"Scan-xiety."
Because we've got to do this
every three months, and this
is going to be our
life for a while.
>> Hi, Betty.
My name is Tracy Ryan.
My daughter, Sophie,
had an MRI scan today.
Would I be able to put
in a request with you
to pick up a disk the
second it's available?
>> Yeah, it's been finalized.
>> Oh, it has been?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> So you wanted to get
a disk-- a CD of it?
>> Yes, ma'am.
I'm going to go get them.
I always tell my husband that
it could always be worse,
and we see worse every
single day of our lives.
Everybody keeps saying, God only
gives you what you can handle,
but I think that we get things
that we can't handle sometimes
I feel like it's my
responsibility and my duty
to the world and to
God and to my child
to pass on this information
and to help people.
So I created a group
called CannaKids along
with some other mommies
that had sick kids.
It's an amazing, amazing
group full of wonderful women
and men and experts and
doctors and scientists.
And it's just really wonderful.
Hi, Lu.
>> What do the scans look like?
>> It shrunk.
Let me get the paper.
Lulu, it is half the size.
>> Aww.
>> It went from 2.6 to 1.7.
It is half the size.
The cystic component now
measures 1.4 centimeters
versus 2.8 centimeters on 9/23.
It is also half the size.
>> That is--
>> Lulu, these tumors
don't shrink with chemo.
These tumors don't
shrink with chemo.
>> Oh, my god.
>> Hand on a Bible,
my doctor said,
if you can get this
tumor to half the size,
there is no way we can
claim that it was the chemo.
That's the only way.
It has to get to half the size.
Oh, here we go.
Look at these huge black holes.
That's the cell death.
There's, like, nothing
over here anymore.
There used to be all
kinds of tumor over here.
This has always been
the heavier side.
This is-- oh, my god.
That's the cyst.
That's where the
cyst used to be.
Almost gone.
I mean, it's just beautiful.
I never thought I'd be
saying that about a tumor.
I feel very, very, very hopeful.
It's working.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
Hi.
>> Hi.
We're here to see--
>> Sophie.
>> Yes, ma'am.
>> Hi, Sophie.
>> Say hi.
Sophie, did the sleepy medicine
get you already, my buffy?
Say, my cannabis doesn't
even do this to me.
[LAUGHS]
This is Tracy.
>> Hello, Tracy.
This is Dr. Cheng.
So thankfully, Sophie
continues to make progress.
>> At one year of age,
chemotherapy with carboplatin
and vincristine was
started, period.
It's clear the tumor has shrunk
enormously on the chemotherapy.
>> We're doing a lot of holistic
approaches along with her chemo
treatment.
Have you ever seen this
much shrinkage before?
>> I would agree that you
wouldn't expect to see that
much shrinkage of a
tumor from chemotherapy.
I'm not sure it's
the chemotherapy.
>> Well, we don't think
it's the chemotherapy.
>> It might be.
It might not be.
I have no idea.
>> Right.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
Honey, it's almost gone.
I'm looking at all
kinds of angles.
It's almost gone.
>> Really?
>> I'm-- I'm-- yeah.
>> That's amazing.
>> Sophie, do you
want to get up?
Your chemo's done, honey.
>> Hi, sweetie.
>> You're done.
Sophie, Sophie, look.
Sophie, look.
[CHEERING]
[CHATTER]
>> Around three months
into doing this, Dr.
Storch looks at us and said, he
looks like he's getting better.
And I said, well, yeah, he is.
Another month went by.
And reluctantly, I agreed
to let the scans take place.
She looks at us
and says, I don't
know how to tell you this.
I can't explain it.
But his scan is clear.
There is no more
tumors in his chest.
Four months, 20 tumors--
gone.
It's clear.
We do the next scan.
Clear.
The next scan-- clear.
She goes, there's no
cancer in him right now.
He's clear.
>> April is our magic month.
I call it the magic
month because that's
when we're going to stop
chemo totally and then
just try to see.
If it is the cannabis,
we're going to find out
right there and then.
I find out a child has
cancer or something.
I go straight to the
parent, and I give them
Dr. Goldstein's number.
And I say, you have to try.
You have to try.
>> She goes straight to
the parent and tells them,
put your kid on oil.
>> I do.
>> 100%.
She just goes, goes, goes.
I will look at the people and
people that ask me about AJ
and ask me about
the cannabis oil.
And I will tell them,
I honestly don't
know if this will
work for you, but what
I'm going to tell you is
what it did for my son.
>> I have over probably 300
pediatric patients using
cannabis right now.
I have a case report
of a 16-year-old
who came to me a year ago April
with a stage 4 osteosarcoma.
They came in, referred
in by an oncologist,
so bravo to her for
sending the patient to me.
He started cannabis
oil in April.
And in July, he had PET scan,
CT, MRI, and a bone scan,
all negative for disease,
which is really incredible.
[APPLAUSE]
He had repeat scans in
November, which were negative.
I called his oncologist.
And I said, what do you think?
And she said, well,
he should be dead.
I just saw him last week.
His hair's growing back.
He's off chemo.
He's a little bit
beat up from his three
years of chemotherapy.
For about the first eight
months of his treatment,
he was on gemcitabine,
which is, in one study,
synergistic with cannabinoids
to increase cancer killing.
It appears so far that we're
getting some good results.
I never say "cure" with
cancer because I don't know.
But I definitely say
extension of life.
>> First time that
we talked with AJ,
he was almost nonverbal because
he had so much inflammation.
Here he was two months
ago, and here he is now.
>> That's him?
>> No more steroids.
That's your typical cancer
kid face right there.
And that's him now.
God, you got to love that.
When they went back to
Chicago, fortunately somebody
in California was willing
to act as an angel for them.
So we got AJ.
Initially, he was on the
Hindu Kush and the Yummi.
>> Right.
>> If he's only on 0.5
right now on that--
>> The Skunk hasn't come
in yet from our angel.
>> Uh-oh.
We're going to have
to figure that out.
This is not the
ratio I want him at.
I want him to be on the
five-something of THC
and two-something of the CBD.
I want him to be
on at least 2 to 1.
>> When the Skunk gets here,
we'll get back to that goal.
>> Right.
OK.
Do you have enough right now?
>> We're just about
done at this point.
>> I would rather that you give
him a little less each dose
and stretch it out than
risk running out of it.
>> OK.
>> And how is he
doing in school?
>> Oh, my gosh, he's
doing phenomenal.
He loves going to school.
He's on grade level
at this point.
>> And that's on a gram
and a half of cannabis.
What a rockstar.
OK.
He's doing 0.5 at
two times a day
and was only doing the
one on the THC, which
is not sufficient.
When we had that
big CBD shortage,
they got some medicine
from somebody else.
Everybody that has a
still is not an oil maker.
Everybody that has flowers does
not know what to do with it.
I get so furious
with the lack of--
I mean, the lack of regulation
and the lack of oversight.
And that's one of the main
reasons I want it legal
is so that we can
start having standards
and not have it be
the Wild West, which
is just insane right now.
Let me call Tracy.
Where are we right now
on dosing on Sophie?
>> Predominantly we're 1 to 1.
>> OK.
What made you decide
to change to 1 to 1?
>> I thought that was what we
had discussed a while back.
I don't remember exactly why
it was we switched to a 1 to 1
because it's been so long ago.
But now she's doing
Charlotte's Web and the THC
that you gave me last.
I can't remember
what strain it was.
It's not-- so we can go
to you for everything.
>> So she's not even-- she's
doing Charlotte's Web instead
of our--
>> It's been predominantly
Charlotte's for a while.
>> Really?
>> Because remember, you
ran out of CBD pills.
>> Yeah, I knew that because
last time I asked you,
you told me that she's had
a gram total of two syringes
of Charlotte's Web.
>> No.
>> Yes.
>> She started using
Charlotte's Web in February.
If you look at your
records and you
see how much CBD
you've sent me, it
hasn't been that
much for a while
because you guys had
that big shortage.
>> Right.
So she's not really
our patient anymore.
She's just using
one of our products.
>> Well, I mean,
you've trained me well.
[LAUGHS] We were having success.
I knew what I was doing.
I knew I had excellent medicine.
You had trained me how
to take care of her.
How I was taking care
of her was working.
I mean, she has her own plants
there, and it's $100 cheaper.
Actually, this last one was only
$204.51 for almost 10 grams.
So I don't have a lot
of money right now.
I'm barely hanging on.
And anywhere I can
save $100, especially
if I need to get two or three
syringes, it's a big deal.
>> OK, well--
>> --understand that.
It's not that I don't
trust your medicine
or love your medicine
just as much.
It's really a financial thing.
>> Right.
Yeah.
Sophie's doing great, though.
So that's all that matters.
>> Yep.
She is just as normal
as any two-year-old.
We went and saw Dr.
Bonni Goldstein today
to get her card
renewed, and Bonni just
couldn't believe her eyes
at how great she's doing.
>> OK.
All right, take care.
Say hi to everyone for me.
>> Will do.
Talk to you later.
>> All right.
Bye.
>> Bye-bye.
>> In order for someone
to be our patient,
they have to commit to allowing
us to follow them and learn
from them.
That's the only
reason we do this,
is so that we can learn
and understand whatever.
If somebody is getting
medicine from other places
and then not taking it the way
that we tell them to take it,
they might as well just go
to a dispensary and buy it.
That's not who an Aunt
Zelda's patient is.
So I'm going to have to
give considerable thought
to whether Sophie
is still our patient
under these circumstances.
And it's too bad
because I believe
Sophie is where she is
because of our protocol
and our medicine.
But oh, how quickly they forget.
[TENSE MUSIC]
>> The day has finally come
that we are doing our first
CannaKids meetup.
This is our big, official
CannaKids launch day,
so we're really excited.
We've got a lot of people
in the industry coming.
We've got a lot of
families coming.
[CHATTER]
Hi, guys.
How are you?
Sophie.
Hi, baby.
Oh, goodness.
Can I have a kiss?
Thank you.
Did you see your friends?
Test.
All right, everybody, we're
going to go ahead and get
started here in just a second.
My name is Tracy Ryan.
I am the co-founder
of CannaKids.
So just a quick rundown of
what the site is going to be.
First and foremost, it's a
massive resources section--
so all of the
information that I have
learned over the
years, that families
I know that have
learned over the years.
Since getting her on
cannabis and using it
alongside Western medicine,
we've almost completely
destroyed a tumor that was
never supposed to really shrink.
So little Sophie--
[APPLAUSE]
So here we go, guys.
On the screen, we have
the Christmas tree form.
There are 100 plants
for our patients.
I mean, I have to
tell you, guys,
I'm getting really
emotional about how
everything is kind of
evolving and coming together.
Look at what we're doing.
I mean, we're going
to change lives.
And even if we just
saved one child,
even if we cure one
kid of epilepsy,
we shrink one brain
tumor more than what
we've done with Sophie--
we've changed the world.
>> It's definitely improvement.
Yeah, I couldn't
be more pleased.
>> Oh, god.
>> Yeah.
Night and day, Chico.
Night and day.
>> People double-take, and
it takes them a few seconds
to realize that it's Chico.
>> I say, remember Chico,
because it was really tough
on you.
This therapy was really tough.
And we got through it.
You got through it barely,
by the skin of your teeth,
with a lot of help from
a variety of sources.
And to see him
now, it's terrific.
This is what I live for.
Questions?
>> Can we get a renewal of his
cannabis oil recommendation?
I mentioned it to
Margie the other day
because we're still giving
him a small maintenance dose--
>> Sure.
Absolutely.
>> Because they say it helps
prevent relapse, and also,
it stimulates appetite as well.
>> A lot of this
is very new for us.
And so I don't know
all the answers.
But the reality
is we're learning
and that because of
patients like you, Chico,
our minds are more open
towards these types of things
and that there are
other patients that
have derived benefit from
our experience with you.
And that is, I
think, very helpful.
There's still a lot
that we don't know.
>> I just want to say thank
you for being an amazing
oncologist.
And thank you for having
such an open mind.
And it's fantastic.
Isn't it, Chico?
Isn't it?
What do you say to Dr. Federman?
>> Thank you.
>> Do you realize you and what
you did has made him change his
mind and change his thinking?
That's incredible.
I'm so proud of you.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Are you proud of yourself?
>> Yeah.
>> You really should be.
[LAUGHS] You really should be.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
We bought a bike about two
weeks before he was diagnosed,
and he wasn't ever able
to get on that bike.
And then monumentally, got on
the bike and started cycling.
That was, like, [CRYING]----
it was a good day.
>> I now consider
myself a momcologist.
I mean, three years
of chemotherapy
and in and out of hospitals
and the research papers
that have come across
my desk and the websites
that we've now built to
gather information and study
all the different clinical
trials that are out there--
I'm proud of the
accomplishments that we've
made in such a short time.
OK, yeah, let's check in here.
And then for the
press conference,
we just go upstairs?
>> Yes, it's on
the second floor.
>> OK.
Right up there.
>> Yep.
>> Just up the stairs.
Thank you.
>> Oh, yeah, of course.
>> I started doing this
five-plus years ago now.
And I've been working on
creating this software,
fueling it with our data.
And it's now out in beta.
And we have on our board some
of the leading scientists
in the world.
Cristina Sanchez from
Complutense University
is coming for two months.
And we're going to be having
Dr. Noah Federman, who's
on our board, from UCLA.
Oh, my god.
Leading sarcoma specialist--
and they're getting together
to start-- and we're getting an
IRB to start analyzing our data
and then run clinical
trials out of UCLA.
So the fact that we are
at Harvard Medical School
is so important because
we are taking something
that is seen on
the outer fringe,
and we are legitimizing
it by bringing it
into this traditional
Harvard environment.
So I'm very, very
grateful to be here.
>> Quick video of you
to send to my wife?
>> Yes, you may.
>> OK, hold on.
OK.
>> OK.
Hello.
>> I trust this woman
with my wife's life.
>> Thanks.
>> Can I ask you a question?
>> On the way there, please.
>> Hey, Mara.
I just wanted to get--
>> Sophie is a mixed thing
for me because obviously
it's a little bit of a dagger to
my heart because I was treating
her and doing a really good job.
And lo and behold, somebody's
interest in becoming
a "canna-preneur" got
in the way of whatever,
but that's a whole
separate thing.
As we say in Yiddish,
[SPEAKING YIDDISH]..
Let them go in good health.
>> Mara, this is
Jackie Green with--
Now I have this incredible
line of gold medicinal oils,
actually, that I'm
about to give Sophie.
Our own strain called
Isabella's Bloom,
which is named after her.
Mara has been generous,
and I'm forever
grateful to her for the
knowledge that she's given me
and for the assistance that
she's given to my child.
But why not make
an incredible oil
and give my daughter
free medicine?
Are you guys doing indoor now?
>> No, we're talking about
the actual processing.
>> Oh.
Oh, oh.
But it's-- yeah.
It's not what it used to be.
>> --this greenhouse.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
We do, in fact, promote
whole plant extracts.
You have to have the
entourage effect.
You have to have the synergy
between the terpenes,
the flavonoids, everything
else that's in the plant
in addition to the
cannabinoids that are in there.
And even the cannabinoids
working together
have a synergistic effect.
We must have clinical trials.
It doesn't need to be in
the hands of people like me.
I'm glad that my
software is going
to be able to put it into the
hands for the clinical trials
and the doctors and all.
>> Unfortunately, California has
a reputation of the Wild West.
And I would say that
without regulations there,
it is kind of hard to practice.
But what I'm going
to tell everybody
is that my patients
are getting medicine.
My patients are getting better.
My patients have
better quality of life.
And so it is imperative
the rest of the country
follows California.
>> Eric.
>> Hi, nice to meet you.
>> I am a pediatrician
in Taunton,
which is about an
hour south of here.
I am the only pediatrician
in all of Massachusetts
who is registered with the
medicinal marijuana program.
>> Good for you.
>> I am bombarded with patients.
I appreciate what you're doing.
Please write something for
the pediatric journals.
It's got to be there, and
they've got to accept it.
The pharmaceutical
companies, I believe,
are suppressing all of this.
The impediments,
the obstructions--
I mean, I'm in practice 39
years, and the people who lose
are the patients.
>> Are the patients.
Of course.
[PLAY FIGHTING]
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> We're getting out of here.
>> They gave our son
eight months to live.
So-- aggravated, upset that
we had to go through all this
to it to get some type of--
I guess some answer whether
even it works or not.
>> We did what we could do,
and that's what matters.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> Good morning.
Oh, it's school day today.
Are you excited?
>> No?
>> Oh, yeah.
Oh, he's excited.
So he's still on quite
a big dose, really.
He can have it before
you go to school,
but we wouldn't be sending him
with his vaporizer into school.
I just think if having this
mixture every day increases
his odds of not relapsing, then
it's worth doing, isn't it?
He's going to be a
completely normal child.
Aren't you?
Starting with
brushing your teeth.
Come on.
Go get your teeth
brushed quickly.
We've got to go.
>> Ladies and gentlemen, we
should always be welcoming when
someone comes in.
Is your name Chico?
You can take an open seat.
The next thing I
have to talk about
is reviewing the dress code.
I had a couple of
students last year
who would wear clothing that
had a marijuana leaf on it.
That is not school appropriate.
Once again, something
that you wouldn't
want to be caught with at
school is something that
should not be on your clothing.
>> Hey.
>> Oh, my god, look at you.
Oh, it's so good to see you.
>> You, too.
>> Look at you.
>> Is it good stuff?
We got it from a shop
that had been busted.
>> Oh, there's no instructions?
>> No.
No instructions.
>> Chico came, and
he's like, Mom, Mom,
I know what I want
for my birthday.
And he said, I
want grow equipment
so I can set up my own
grow and grow my own plants
and make my own
medicine like Mara.
>> Oh, right on.
That's so cool.
So you'll have to come up
to us and go into the lab
and work with our chemist and
actually make the medicine.
That would be just
absolutely fantastic.
Absolutely.
>> And he said he wanted
to dedicate his grow.
>> My friend who had
cancer the same time as me,
and she didn't make it.
But we were really good friends.
And yeah.
>> It's very special.
Gee, thanks.
Make me cry.
>> Me, too.
>> Right.
>> If somebody told me that I
would be buying my 14-year-old
son cannabis grow
equipment for his birthday,
I would have thought
they were rather silly.
>> Absolutely.
>> But it's funny how
life is, isn't it?
>> And some of them drink
a little more water than
the other one.
These will get a
little more bigger.
Some will get a lot fatter.
[REFLECTIVE MUSIC]
>> We can have a grand opening.
Well done, Chico.
Thank you, Stewart.
>> It's my pleasure.
>> She loves it, too.
>> I'm writing to the president
to help legalize cannabis oil
for kids so they don't have to
go through what I went through.
It makes me sad and
kind of confused
because I don't get
why they can't have it
if it really helps them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The United States government,
through its Department
of Health and Human Services,
holds a patent on marijuana
as a protectant for the brain.
And it's something to protect
the brain after head injuries.
>> How is that possible that the
US government holds a patent?
>> The US government holds
a patent on one hand,
and on the other hand, same
government says it has no
medical application.
Journalists, I think, are
trained to hate hypocrisy.
This is hypocrisy.
I've never seen it
quite like this.
>> Why does the federal
government hold patents
on the various ingredients of
marijuana if they don't think
it has medical value?
And why should the
federal government
be looking to benefit from
future medical use of cannabis
products because they
have these patents?
This is unconscionable.
It's just unconscionable
the positions they've taken.
And meanwhile, they keep
denying, and they keep denying,
and they keep denying.
It's cruel.
And years from
now in the future,
people will look back on
this time and marvel--
marvel at how cruel we've been.
>> The whole idea of there's
not enough research is actually
true.
There's not enough.
But there's enough research
for me to know, one,
it happens to be a
very safe medication.
And two, it works.
>> The whole drug issue--
the Drug Policy Reform Issue--
is a human rights issue
at its core.
>> The hope is that the use of
cannabis becomes depoliticized
and appropriately integrated
into health, medicinal,
wellness, spiritual,
human, cultural systems,
as it has always been
for thousands of years.
>> Here.
Right, mate.
Let's put your jacket on.
Zip it up.
Now, have you been
on a bike before?
>> A dirtbike.
>> OK.
>> When Chico got sick,
this friend of ours, Latch,
kept sending him messages
on Facebook saying,
I'm going to be taking you for a
ride on the back of the Harley.
It just so happens that
today is the day, which
didn't seem like
it was ever going
to be possible at one point.
>> The louder you scream
and shout, the faster we go.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
Any last words, Mom?
>> I think I'm more
scared than he is.
>> Bring my boy back.
>> Yeah, have fun.
Enjoy yourself.
You've earned this ride, Chico.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> You really have.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
[ENGINE TURNS OVER]
>> You want to give
it a quick rev?
[MOTOR REVS]
See you in a bit.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
>> Alexander Kephart.
[CHEERING]
[CHATTER]
[BERNA, "STILL IN TIME"]
[VOCALIZING]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
>> (SINGING) Millions
displaced by hurricanes.
Islanders fear the
clouds and rains.
There's no place else to go.
This is our home, the only one.
It should be clear what
must be done by now.
I'm sure we know.
[VOCALIZING]
Our home.
Rewrite a time
there wasn't fire.
No time to wait to get inspired.
We crossed the finish line.
We've got to move.
We've got to fly.
We've got to.
We've got to try.
We're out of stalling time.
We're still in time.
Mm.
When are we going
to understand all
that's alive is in our hands?
Mm, mm.
When are we going
to understand all
that's alive is in our hands?
Time.
We're still in time.
Mm.
[VOCALIZING]
We're still in time.
Mm.